>>>>>>>>>>         IF YOU HAd A FIRE IN YOUR HOUSE,         <<<<<<<<<<
               Would You Save Your Family and Yourself
                OR Would You Rather Die In the Flames?
                        By Arthur B. Robinson,
               Co-Author of the book, and editor of the
                      newsletter FIGHTING CHANCE

     There are actually a few people who think that life without luxu-
ries for a few years wouldn't be worth living.  They have a low view 
of the meaning and importance of life. We are not directing our argu-
ments to change their minds.  We are arguing to convince other people 
-- people who, in a fire in the middle of the night, will grab their 
children and run out of the house.

     About 28 percent of the world's civilian population is protected 
from nuclear war.  You are not.
     There are people who think that nuclear war is unthinkable.  
These people clearly are not Soviet military strategists, who have 
thought about it carefully for four decades.  They have built the 
largest military force the world has ever seen.  They also have pro-
tected their civilian population from nuclear war.
     The two Communist superpowers, the Soviet Union and Red China 
have understood the realities of nuclear war.  They have built nation-
wide nuclear defense shelters.  So have the Swiss.
     What isn't generally known outside of Switzerland is that the 
entire Swiss population is now sheltered from atomic attack.  There 
are substantial but lesser civil defense programs in some other coun-
tries such as Sweden.  The rest of the world, especially the U.S., has 
not understood and is undefended.

     NUCLEAR WAR IS SURVIVABLE. MORE IMPORTANTLY, IF IT IS PREPARED 
FOR, IT MIGHT NOT HAPPEN AT ALL.
     There is a reason why the Communist powers are prepared for 
nuclear war: they plan on fighting one.  They are both prepared to 
take the steps necessary to provide themselves with not only a fight-
ing chance, but also a high probability of victory.
     Some say the Soviets have amassed the largest arsenal on the face 
of the earth as a "defense."  Let them tell it to Afghanistan.  Let 
them tell it to Poland.  Let them tell it to someone who is totally 
ignorant of the history of the Soviet Union.  Don't tell it to us.  We 
cannot take the risk of dying in a fantasy world.
     If our enemies are at some point willing to bring the "game" to 
its climax, 200 million Americans will die, unless we develop AND 
DEPLOY new defensive strategies.
     Today, we have no shelters.  We have no anti-missile and virtu-
ally no anti-aircraft defense.  Our American based soldiers have no 
shelters either.  We are at the mercy of the Soviet General Staff.  We 
cannot even protect ourselves from a single terrorist nuclear weapon.
     What should be argued no longer is the need for a place for our 
people to hide when the missiles begin to fly.  Today, there is no way 
for the United States' military to shoot down the missiles before they 
reach their targets.  Those of us who are targets -- and this may mean 
all of us -- want to get out of range.  The first step for our protec-
tion is to build a passive defense system.

          THE DOOMSDAY MERCHANTS MAY COST YOU YOUR LIFE
     Certain political groups who advocate unilateral disarmament and 
surrender of the United States have originated doomsday claims for the 
purpose of frightening Americans into remaining unprepared.
     They have claimed that a so-called "nuclear winter" would make 
the earth uninhabitable.  All responsible scientific studies of this 
subject have concluded that no "nuclear winter" would occur. The 
"nuclear winter" claim has been completely discredited in the scienti-
fic literature.
     They have claimed that the earth would become so radioactive that 
it would be uninhabitable.  Even in the worst possible nuclear war, 
life threatening levels of radiation would not remain more than two 
weeks in most locations.  In fact, in most areas of the United States 
the radiation would decay to a non-lethal level within a few days or 
less.  If Americans have proper shelters -- as the Soviets, Chinese, 
Swiss, and Swedish people have today, then they would be protected 
from harm during the brief period of radiation danger.
     They have claimed that great firestorms would kill virtually all 
urban Americans.  In fact very few American cities are constructed in 
such a way that firestorms could occur.  Moreover, in properly de-
signed shelters our people would be safe even from this threat.  Dur-
ing the firestorms in Germany during World War II, the people who were 
in proper public shelters survived.
     But what about chemical and biological weapons?  
     Good shelters protect us from those threats too. In fact, there 
is only one phenomenon of nuclear war that can surely cost you your 
life.  That is the phenomenon of fear -- if that fear causes you to 
make no preparations ahead of time to survive.

        THE CIVIL DEFENSE PLAN THAT MAY SAVE YOUR LIFE

     What if we could get into a shelter that would protect us from 
nuclear attack?  If we can show you that you could survive, would you 
buy a lifetime ticket on the "subway" for $300?  Would you buy tickets 
for your family members?  If you could charge it to your credit card 
today, would you do it?
     If you don't have the cash right now, would you be willing to ask 
your Congressman to buy one for you and bill it to the Department of 
Defense?  We know WE would be willing.
     Many Americans pay $300 and more each year for life insurance 
alone.  What are your odds of dying this year?  We believe that Ameri-
cans should spend $300 on nuclear war "life insurance" protection AND 
LIVE.
     What do we need to survive a nuclear attack?  Not many citizens 
know.  But every concerned citizen needs to find out.
     We are proposing a mass produced shelter system that works.  All 
the engineering and testing is complete.  It is a shelter system that 
will protect American families from nuclear attack.
     It will cost $200 per sheltered space for the shelter itself, 
plus $100 per person for post-attack food, survival, and rebuilding 
supplies.  This is the minimum for assured survival.  However . . .

          THIS SHELTER HAS ONE MAJOR TECHNICAL DRAWBACK:
               IT WON'T WORK IF IT ISN'T BUILT.

[Regardless of philosophical and religious differences, I MOST HIGHLY 
RECOMMEND the incomparable work Dr and Mrs Robinson are doing on dis-
tributing the book and newsletter FIGHTING CHANCE, which will do more 
to prevent nuclear war than all the wishful thinking on T-shirts and 
bumperstickers. Become a member of Dr Robinson's organization. Help 
distribute the Petition in Support of American Civil Defense and 
collect signatures for it (see Operations Room of this Fort); write 
for the literature available from them; write for their video tapes; 
subscribe to their newsletter; and send a contribution. The address is 

                         FIGHTING CHANCE
                            Box 1279
                     Cave Junction, OR 97523.]
