WARNINGS FROM THE PAST by Kurt Saxon  copyright 1981
     The imminent collapse of world civilization is becoming 
apparent to more people as the economy grinds down and 
international frictions accelerate.  Even so, most people still 
believe the overall decline is due to some kind of plot, political 
bungling or economic miscalculation.
     Whatever they believe, they are still blind to the real root 
cause of every socio-economic and political upheaval; a surplus of 
people, and worse, a surplus of inferior people.  Further, they 
seem to think it Hitlerian to advocate the destruction of the 
millions of parasites who have doomed civilization.
     Actually, Hitler's program was plain and simple nationalism, 
whereby the German was to be supreme over every other race and 
ethnic group.  Much is made of his proposed program to sterilize 
defectives.  But this only involved obvious mental basket cases.  
Any German able to tell the difference between one end of a gun and 
the other was to become part of the "Master Race".  The uniformed 
Germanic ape would have been placed over even intelligent Americans.
     Hitler's bias in favor of Germans over the superior Americans 
and British of his day stems from his being an Urbanite and a 
politician.  If any bias is valid I'd favor the most dim-witted but 
productive clod kicker in the Ozarks over an Urbanite and/or 
politician.
     I bring up Hitler only because I'm so often accused of 
imitating his thinking in my advocacy of sterilization and 
euthanasia in regards to ridding our species of inferiors.  But as 
a reincarnationist, it would be silly of me to be either an active 
nationalist or racist.  I could be reborn white, black, yellow, 
Gentile, Jew, Protestant, Catholic, etc. (There may be no truth in 
the doctrine of reincarnation, but so what?).
     My only concern in ridding our species of inferior vehicles is 
a kind of insurance.  This is that I, or anyone else, will be well
born, well reared, well educated and well occupied.  Plus, without 
morons dropping surplus young onto the welfare rolls, adequate 
individuals could keep most of their earnings for the benefit of 
themselves and their loved ones.  Regardless of the socio-economic 
system, there is no justification for public funds being squandered 
on demanding parasites.
     Our present horde of public charges has become an accepted 
obligation on the part of the average American taxpayer.  Every 
politician falls all over himself apologizing for any fancied 
slight to "the truly needy".  But who truly needs the truly needy?  
And why should the truly needed be enslaved on their behalf?  Why 
should the lives of the improvident aged prolonged by strangers?  
Why should the fertility of welfare parasites be subsidized by 
society's workers?  There is no logical reason for any of these 
miscarriages of compassion.
     But modern Urbanites have become so psychologically and 
economically locked into the system of perpetuating the useless and 
unfit that it will take a nuclear war to rid us of them.  It does 
no good to try to reason with Urbanites since they're unable to 
grasp the basic issues.
     In case it's not clear in your mind, let me give you a few 
simple illustrations which I hope will put the problem in its 
overall perspective.
     Say this country was a body and the people were its cells.  
Say further that over a third of the cells were either old and worn 
out or physically or mentally defective, or predatory, attacking 
normal cells.
     Now, say your doctor said you had cancer and he was going to 
cut it out.  But you say, "No. My cancer cells have as much right 
to live as my normal cells".  You'd be judged insane.  
     But our country has millions of old people, being kept alive 
artificially, in misery, long after Nature/god decreed they should 
die, and at great public expense.  Millions of physical and mental 
defectives are not only allowed to live, but encouraged to 
reproduce their blighted kind; again at public expense.  Millions 
of predators, with known records, are allowed to run free to rob, 
rape, maim and kill; still at staggering public expense.  If 
jailed, they often live better than their victims, to the detriment 
of the taxpayer.
     So this country is afflicted with collective insanity and 
terminal cancer.  The terminal cancer is self-explanatory.  But the 
collective insanity is manifested in the average Urbanite's 
ignorance in believing in the timelessness of today.
     The Urbanite's mind is beset with thousands of impressions 
each day.  Rapid change is a natural part of his life.  His days 
are so full of differences, he can't remember well what life was 
like five years ago, much less twenty.  And history is a 
meaningless panorama of unrelated or foreign impressions.
     So it is natural that the laws of cause and effect, so noticed 
by those dwelling in more placid rural areas is lost on him.  Add 
to that the fact that the average Urbanite is possessed of a 
hopelessly low I.Q. and the more intelligent is desperately 
neurotic and you have an urban populace of nitwits.
     It's little wonder that the relatively normal Urbanite can't 
see the forest for the trees.  Surrounded by the imbecilic and the 
twisted, he thinks he's anti-social, out of place and just a 
frustrated malcontent if he doesn't see his Disneyland for dummies 
as the best of all possible worlds.
     If you corner him and give him the facts he'll admit he's 
uneasy for himself and his loved ones.  But his job is there and 
besides, Congress won't let Social Security go bankrupt.  The 
Russians aren't suicidal enough to start a nuclear war.
     Without realizing it, he's been caught up in the hysteria of 
the dimwitted and the psychotic Urbanites around him.  The wishful 
thinking of his inferiors has weakened his instincts for 
self-preservation.  Living in the timelessness of the parasite, he 
has no sense of history or of the laws of cause and effect.
     Of course, Rurals have little better sense of history, as 
such.  Since they are into a more basic economy they seldom need 
the education or the broad frame of reference requiring long term 
historical evaluations.  But they are much more aware of the laws 
of cause and effect and so can better understand what happens when 
losers reproduce.
     So the above and the following will be lost on Urbanites but 
will be understood by most Rurals.  But after all, the Urbanites 
are deservedly doomed and the Rurals are the seeds of the next 
civilization.  So it's to the Rurals these warnings are redirected 
in hopes that humans will finally learn.
     Warnings of overpopulation have been given since Plato's time 
and probably before.  The warnings were all valid, as Greece, Rome 
and every following civilization was eventually swamped by vast 
numbers of useless and degenerate citizens.  Misery and cultural 
loss has always been the price of "humans" breeding like animals.
     Thomas Malthus put his finger on the problem in 1797 but was 
opposed by the Urbanites of his day.  The following is from 
Chamber's Encyclopedia, 1891:
     MALTHUS, THOMAS ROBERT, the expounder of the theory of 
population, was born 14 February 1766 at the Rookery near Dorking 
in Surrey, where his father owned a small estate.  He was ninth 
wrangler at Cambridge in 1797, was elected Fellow of his college 
(Jesus), took orders, and was appointed to a parish in his native 
county.  In 1798 he brought out his Essay on the Principle of 
Population, which attracted great attention and met with no little 
criticism.  During the following years Malthus extended his 
knowledge of the subject both by travel and by reading, and in 1803 
published a greatly enlarged edition of his essay.  In 1805 he 
married happily, and soon after was appointed professor of 
Political Economy and Modern History in the East India Company's 
college at Haileybury, a post which he occupied till his death at 
Bath on 29th December, 1834.
     Personally, Malthus was a kindly and accomplished man, who 
followed what he believed to be the truth, and who endured without 
a complaint the abuse and misunderstanding to which his writings 
exposed him.  The aim of the Essay was to supply a reasoned 
corrective to the theories regarding the perfectibility of society, 
which had been diffused by Rousseau and his school, and which had 
been advocated in England by Godwin.  Malthus maintained that such 
optimistic hopes are rendered baseless by the natural tendency of 
population to increase faster than the means of subsistence.  He 
pointed out that both in the animal and vegetable kingdoms life was 
so prolific that if allowed free room to multiply it would fill 
millions of worlds in the course of a few thousand years.  The only 
limit to its increase is the want of room and food.  With regard to 
man, the question is complicated by the fact that the instinct of 
propagation is controlled by reason; but even in his case the 
ultimate check to population is the want of food, only it seldom 
operates directly, but takes a variety of forms in accordance with 
the complexity of human society.  The more immediate checks are 
either preventive or positive.  The former appear as moral 
restraint or vice.  The positive checks are exceedingly various, 
including all unwholesome occupations, severe labour and exposure 
to the seasons, extreme poverty, bad nursing of children, large 
towns, excesses of all kinds, the whole train of common diseases 
and epidemics, wars, plague, and famine.  Malthus goes on to 
illustrate the action of his principle by a review of the history 
of the different nations and races, showing what are the actual 
checks that have limited population--celibacy, wars, infanticide, 
plagues, vicious practices--and proving that the population 
difficulty has affected the development of society from the 
beginning.
     It cannot be said that Malthus was original in his exposition 
of the theory of population.  It is a theme of both Plato and 
Aristotle.  Shortly before the time of Malthus the problem had been 
handled by Benjamin Franklin, Hume, and many other writers.  
Malthus crystallised the views of those writers, and presented them 
in systematic form with elaborate proofs derived from history.  In 
certain details and in the form of exposition the Essay may be 
criticised; but the broad principles of it can be doubted only by 
those who do not understand the question.  The enormous increase of 
the means of subsistence attained by colonisation and modern 
industrial development has only for a time postponed the population 
difficulty for the world at large, while its pressure is still felt 
in the more thickly peopled centers both of Europe and of the 
East.  At the present time the most interesting feature of Malthus 
is his relation to Darwin.  Darwin said on reading Malthus On 
Population that natural selection was the inevitable result of the 
rapid increase of all organic beings for such rapid increase 
necessarily leads to the struggle for existence.  To prevent 
misunderstanding it should be added that Malthus gives no sanction 
to the theories and practices currently known as Malthusianism.  In 
this reference Malthus approved only of the principle of moral 
self-restraint; do not marry till you have a fair prospect of 
supporting a family.
     
